README.md, before:

[![Test](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/rust.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/release.yml)

# Gpt Cli

Linux terminal GPT3 integration with killer prompt that skip descriptions and other human-readable bullshit. It shows
you commands that can be executed by `ENTER`.

## Example:

You typing:

```
p show me my graphic cards
```

You will see:

```
lspci -k | grep -A 2 -E "(VGA|3D)"
```

After `ENTER` you will see

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Alder Lake-P Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
        Subsystem: CLEVO/KAPOK Computer Device 65f5
        Kernel driver in use: i915
--
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GA106M [GeForce RTX 3060 Mobile / Max-Q] (rev a1)
        Subsystem: CLEVO/KAPOK Computer Device 67f5
        Kernel driver in use: nvidia
```

## Installation

```
git clone https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli && cd gpt-cli 
cargo build --release
sudo cp ./target/release/gpt-cli /usr/local/bin/p
```

## Config

Copy your `GPT3_API_KEY` to env variable. Your `.profile`, `.bashrc`, or `.zshrc` file.

```bash
export GPT3_API_KEY=sk-xxx
```

## Usage

| what you typing in terminal                                                        | answers you can execute by "ENTER"                                            |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| show me graphic card                                                               | lspci -k &#124; grep -A 2 -E "(VGA&#124;3D)"                                  |
| jq command that join package name and version by dash                              | jq '.name + "-" + .version'                                                   |
| three processes with highest ram usage                                             | ps aux --sort=-%mem &#124; head -n 4                                          |
| make backup of mysql db called docs                                                | mysqldump docs > docs_backup.sql                                              |
| setup jest configured for typescript                                               | npm install --save-dev jest @types/jest ts-jest                               |
| generate ed keys                                                                   | openssl genpkey -algorithm ed25519 -out privatekey.key                        |
| show me content of Cargo.toml encoded as base64                                    | base64 Cargo.toml                                                             |
| show me content of Cargo.toml encoded as base64 in single line                     | cat Cargo.toml &#124; base64 -w 0                                             |
| show timer that will update every second                                           | watch -n 1 date +%T                                                           |
| range from 10 to 15                                                                | seq 10 15                                                                     |
| replace all lines starting from "CFG_" to starting from "CONFIG_" in file env.conf | sed -i 's/^CFG_/CONFIG_/g' env.conf                                           |
| write one liner to detect emails in file                                           | grep -Eio '\b[A-Za-z0-9._%+-]+@[A-Za-z0-9.-]+\.[A-Z&#124;a-z]{2,}\b' filename |
| cron line to execute /bin/task every monday at 7pm                                 | 0 19 * * 1 /bin/task                                                          |
| run rusts tests one by one                                                         | cargo test -- --test-threads=1                                                |
| who i am and am i still needed                                                     | whoami and yes, you are still needed. <-- hahah it is authentic gpt3 answer   |

## Features

- [x] Interactive commands
- [x] Colors
- [x] Real time stream
- [ ] Easy to install (in progress)

## Constrains

Ofc GPT3 does not have sense of humor... so

```bash
p say mooo as cow that have colors of rainbow
```

will not work. Correct answer is

```bash
cowsay mooo | lolcat
```

and for

```bash
p show my train in terminal
```

answer is

```bash
Sorry, I do not understand. Can you please provide more details about what you want me to do?
```

instead

```bash
sl
```

There is problem with exporting env variables and `&&` is not supported yet. Command that will not work:

| what you typing in terminal         | answers that you can copy, but not confirm by "ENTER"    | Reason                                            |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| change language to spanish          | locale-gen es_ES.UTF-8 && update-locale LANG=es_ES.UTF-8 | no support for `&&`                               |
| change terminal language to english | LANG=en_US.utf8                                          | env are not passed from subprocess to parent shel |
| get my default shell                | echo $SHELL                                              | it will print $SHELL string without evaluation    |

## Alternatives

Stars was updated 14-03-2023

| This project    |                                                               |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                                          |
| Easy to install | no (wip)                                                      |
| Streaming       | yes                                                           |
| Stars           | 4                                                             |
| Release         | 13-03-2023                                                    |
| Last update     | 14-03-2023                                                    |
| Engine          | gpt-3.5-turbo                                                 |
| Goal            | save time for cli commands typing if you do not remember them |

| gpt3-cli        | https://github.com/CrazyPython/gpt3-cli                 |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | python                                                  |
| Easy to install | medium                                                  |
| Streaming       | yes                                                     |
| Stars           | 50                                                      |
| Release         | 23-03-2021                                              |
| Last update     | 22-04-2021                                              |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                |
| Goal            | A lightweight command-line interface to OpenAI's GPT-3. |

| ai-cli          | https://github.com/abhagsain/ai-cli                             |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | typescript                                                      |
| Easy to install | yes                                                             |
| Streaming       | no                                                              |
| Stars           | 935                                                             |
| Release         | 15-11-2022                                                      |
| Last update     | 09-12-2022                                                      |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                        |
| Goal            | Get answers for CLI commands from GPT3 right from your terminal |

| heygpt          | https://github.com/fuyufjh/heygpt               |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                            |
| Easy to install | yes                                             |
| Streaming       | yes                                             |
| Stars           | 40                                              |
| Release         | 06-03-2023                                      |
| Last update     | 12-03-2023                                      |
| Engine          | gpt-3.5-turbo                                   |
| Goal            | A simple common-line interface for ChatGPT API. |

| caos            | https://github.com/dabumana/caos                                    |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | go                                                                  |
| Easy to install | no                                                                  |
| Streaming       | no                                                                  |
| Stars           | 5                                                                   |
| Release         | 22-01-2023                                                          |
| Last update     | 13-03-2023                                                          |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                            |
| Goal            | advanced, configurable conversational assistant for openai services |

| gptsh           | https://github.com/shorwood/gptsh                                     |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | javascript                                                            |
| Easy to install | yes                                                                   |
| Streaming       | no                                                                    |
| Stars           | 99                                                                    |
| Release         | 27-12-2020                                                            |
| Last update     | 18-01-2022                                                            |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                              |
| Goal            | translate natural language questions and requests into shell commands |

| rusty           | https://github.com/zahidkhawaja/rusty |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                  |
| Easy to install | no                                    |
| Streaming       | no                                    |
| Stars           | 272                                   |
| Release         | 05-09-2022                            |
| Last update     | 07-02-2023                            |
| Engine          | text-davinci-003                      |
| Goal            | help you remember bash commands       |

## Support

I'm looking for challenging, remote job with rust + typescript + advanced math, so if you appreciate this project, you
can share it, leave star, and recommend me earning employment commission.

Commit message:

v0.0.7 fixes in release process - installation by wget fixed

README.md, after:

[![Test](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/rust.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/rust.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/actions/workflows/release.yml)

# Gpt Cli

Linux terminal GPT3 integration with killer prompt that skip descriptions and other human-readable bullshit. It shows
you commands that can be executed by `ENTER`.

## Example:

You typing:

```
p show me my graphic cards
```

You will see:

```
lspci -k | grep -A 2 -E "(VGA|3D)"
```

After `ENTER` you will see

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Alder Lake-P Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
        Subsystem: CLEVO/KAPOK Computer Device 65f5
        Kernel driver in use: i915
--
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GA106M [GeForce RTX 3060 Mobile / Max-Q] (rev a1)
        Subsystem: CLEVO/KAPOK Computer Device 67f5
        Kernel driver in use: nvidia
```

## Installation

```
wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli/main/install.sh | bash
```

it will save `gpt-cli` and alias `p` in `/usr/local/bin` so this is why it require sudo. You can also [compile it yourself](#compilation-from-source).

## Config

Copy your `GPT3_API_KEY` to env variable. Your `.profile`, `.bashrc`, or `.zshrc` file.

```bash
export GPT3_API_KEY=sk-xxx
```

## Usage

| what you typing in terminal                                                        | answers you can execute by "ENTER"                                            |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| show me graphic card                                                               | lspci -k &#124; grep -A 2 -E "(VGA&#124;3D)"                                  |
| jq command that join package name and version by dash                              | jq '.name + "-" + .version'                                                   |
| three processes with highest ram usage                                             | ps aux --sort=-%mem &#124; head -n 4                                          |
| make backup of mysql db called docs                                                | mysqldump docs > docs_backup.sql                                              |
| setup jest configured for typescript                                               | npm install --save-dev jest @types/jest ts-jest                               |
| generate ed keys                                                                   | openssl genpkey -algorithm ed25519 -out privatekey.key                        |
| show me content of Cargo.toml encoded as base64                                    | base64 Cargo.toml                                                             |
| show me content of Cargo.toml encoded as base64 in single line                     | cat Cargo.toml &#124; base64 -w 0                                             |
| show timer that will update every second                                           | watch -n 1 date +%T                                                           |
| range from 10 to 15                                                                | seq 10 15                                                                     |
| replace all lines starting from "CFG_" to starting from "CONFIG_" in file env.conf | sed -i 's/^CFG_/CONFIG_/g' env.conf                                           |
| write one liner to detect emails in file                                           | grep -Eio '\b[A-Za-z0-9._%+-]+@[A-Za-z0-9.-]+\.[A-Z&#124;a-z]{2,}\b' filename |
| cron line to execute /bin/task every monday at 7pm                                 | 0 19 * * 1 /bin/task                                                          |
| run rusts tests one by one                                                         | cargo test -- --test-threads=1                                                |
| who i am and am i still needed                                                     | whoami and yes, you are still needed. <-- hahah it is authentic gpt3 answer   |

## Features

- [x] Interactive commands
- [x] Colors
- [x] Real time stream
- [ ] Easy to install (in progress)

## Constrains

Ofc GPT3 does not have sense of humor... so

```bash
p say mooo as cow that have colors of rainbow
```

will not work. Correct answer is

```bash
cowsay mooo | lolcat
```

and for

```bash
p show my train in terminal
```

answer is

```bash
Sorry, I do not understand. Can you please provide more details about what you want me to do?
```

instead

```bash
sl
```

There is problem with exporting env variables and `&&` is not supported yet. Command that will not work:

| what you typing in terminal         | answers that you can copy, but not confirm by "ENTER"    | Reason                                            |
|-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| change language to spanish          | locale-gen es_ES.UTF-8 && update-locale LANG=es_ES.UTF-8 | no support for `&&`                               |
| change terminal language to english | LANG=en_US.utf8                                          | env are not passed from subprocess to parent shel |
| get my default shell                | echo $SHELL                                              | it will print $SHELL string without evaluation    |

## Alternatives

Stars was updated 14-03-2023

| This project    |                                                               |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                                          |
| Easy to install | no (wip)                                                      |
| Streaming       | yes                                                           |
| Stars           | 4                                                             |
| Release         | 13-03-2023                                                    |
| Last update     | 14-03-2023                                                    |
| Engine          | gpt-3.5-turbo                                                 |
| Goal            | save time for cli commands typing if you do not remember them |

| gpt3-cli        | https://github.com/CrazyPython/gpt3-cli                 |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | python                                                  |
| Easy to install | medium                                                  |
| Streaming       | yes                                                     |
| Stars           | 50                                                      |
| Release         | 23-03-2021                                              |
| Last update     | 22-04-2021                                              |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                |
| Goal            | A lightweight command-line interface to OpenAI's GPT-3. |

| ai-cli          | https://github.com/abhagsain/ai-cli                             |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | typescript                                                      |
| Easy to install | yes                                                             |
| Streaming       | no                                                              |
| Stars           | 935                                                             |
| Release         | 15-11-2022                                                      |
| Last update     | 09-12-2022                                                      |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                        |
| Goal            | Get answers for CLI commands from GPT3 right from your terminal |

| heygpt          | https://github.com/fuyufjh/heygpt               |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                            |
| Easy to install | yes                                             |
| Streaming       | yes                                             |
| Stars           | 40                                              |
| Release         | 06-03-2023                                      |
| Last update     | 12-03-2023                                      |
| Engine          | gpt-3.5-turbo                                   |
| Goal            | A simple common-line interface for ChatGPT API. |

| caos            | https://github.com/dabumana/caos                                    |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | go                                                                  |
| Easy to install | no                                                                  |
| Streaming       | no                                                                  |
| Stars           | 5                                                                   |
| Release         | 22-01-2023                                                          |
| Last update     | 13-03-2023                                                          |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                            |
| Goal            | advanced, configurable conversational assistant for openai services |

| gptsh           | https://github.com/shorwood/gptsh                                     |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Language        | javascript                                                            |
| Easy to install | yes                                                                   |
| Streaming       | no                                                                    |
| Stars           | 99                                                                    |
| Release         | 27-12-2020                                                            |
| Last update     | 18-01-2022                                                            |
| Engine          | all before gpt-3.5-turbo                                              |
| Goal            | translate natural language questions and requests into shell commands |

| rusty           | https://github.com/zahidkhawaja/rusty |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|
| Language        | rust                                  |
| Easy to install | no                                    |
| Streaming       | no                                    |
| Stars           | 272                                   |
| Release         | 05-09-2022                            |
| Last update     | 07-02-2023                            |
| Engine          | text-davinci-003                      |
| Goal            | help you remember bash commands       |



<a name="compilation-from-source"></a>
## Complication from source

```
git clone https://github.com/gustawdaniel/gpt-cli && cd gpt-cli 
cargo build --release
sudo cp ./target/release/gpt-cli /usr/local/bin/p
```


## Support

I'm looking for challenging, remote job with rust + typescript + advanced math, so if you appreciate this project, you
can share it, leave star, and recommend me earning employment commission.
